salt is everywhere on our planet
but some animals evolved to live
in it while others didn't what
happened there what caused the
split
sup they're salty dog's trace
here
thanks for watching dnews water
is everywhere and is one of the
main reasons life was able to
evolve on earth it's pretty
great
salt is also everywhere salt and
water together make up most of
the water on our planet and it's
a major component of the
beginning of life as we know it
organisms need salt to survive
salt draws water out of cells in
a process called Osmos asst as
Moses is the tendency of water
to flow across a membrane to
balance salinity essentially
nature wants to make sure
there's a balance level of salt
everywhere
this is why if you drink salt
water you can die of dehydration
the water salt balance gets out
of whack and the water gets
pulled out of yourself that's
pretty serious
and yet as bony fish moved from
a salty sea into freshwater also
called sweetwater they had to
eat salt to maintain that salt
water balance they still do this
today urinating any excess salt
sometimes up to a third of their
body weight a day we do this
- which is why we crave and love
salt but this brings us to the
big question of saltwater fish
are drinking salt water
constantly how do we avoid
dehydration due to as Moses
well there are two answers one
comes kind of built in the gills
of some saltwater species like
the flatfish turbit have adapted
to carry more of a special
enzyme called Gil sodium
potassium 80 pace
this allows their gills to reach
salt from their bodies back into
the ocean without this
adaptation they would die
because of that high salinity
but some species of eel salmon
bass and flounder have
adaptations that let them move
between fresh and saltwater
species which can survive in a
variety of celebrities are
referred to as your heyleen some
even actively adapt their gills
or kidneys throughout their
lives there are a lot of species
Cosmo regulating in a lot of
different ways you know
regulating osmosis
this is a great example of how
evolution solves a problem along
many different paths something
scientists called convergent
evolution which is so awesome
so let me give you a couple of
examples an atom is fish are
born in fresh water and live
there for months before they
make for saltwater in Atlantic
salmon and enzyme called type to
di today's is produced in
response to the longer daylight
hours of spring puberty ain't
just weird for humans this
enzyme alters the Salmons gills
and
she ating osmoregulation so they
can safely swim into salty water
this is reversed when they
return to rivers and streams to
breed and start the process with
their own little Salmons and a
2013 study in molecular and
cellular proteomics detailed how
a different adaptation involved
in tilapia
when placed into salted water
gradually the researchers found
tilapia gills adapted producing
a specialized protein they
called n brg1 this let the
tilapia survive in a saline
environment as long as they had
time to slowly adapt a lot of
fish evolution has happened in
the last four hundred million
years
fish have spread into pretty
much every water based
environment on the planet after
the great dying 250 million
years ago which wiped out ninety
five percent of all marine
species evolution had to figure
out how to Ozma regulate again
through an assortment of
convergent evolutionary
adaptations freshwater fish
repopulated the oceans learning
to deal with that super salty
water eventually they made it to
land as well when a fish named
Houston opteron evolved into
amphibians and tetrapods like
you and me without salt and
being able to regulate it life
as we know it wouldn't exist
pollution is the best saltwater
fish diversity is pretty
incredible
thanks to evolution and this
year on Animal Planet's river
monsters it's all about salt
water baby
don't miss new episodes of river
monsters every thursday at nine
eight central on animal planet
you wonder why animals are the
way they are you belong with us
here on dnews so subscribe down
there and then check out this
video from the set and why some
birds can't fly
thanks to DNA studies we now
know that all of today's
flightless birds came from
ancestors that flew but they all
independently evolved to lose
their ability to fly
you wanna know something else
about animals and why they are
the way they are let us know in
the comments keep coming back
here every day so you get more
dnews
yeah